---
layout: post
title: "2011"
---

First time I've written one of these yearly reflective blog posts, but this
year I felt I've achieved quite a lot. This past year I think I've learnt
quite a lot of new things, and that 2012 can only mean more things to learn and
I would love to release a lot more open source projects and contribute to a lot
more on top of that.

## Jessica, the micro web framework

Early this year there was a trend where quite a few .NET community members were
creating micro web frameworks. The biggest on at the time was (and still is)
Nancy. I decided that Nancy didn't suit my style of development and various
other reasons, you can read these in my blog post about
[why I created Jessica][why-jessica].

Jessica gained a few followers which was more of an audience than I expected
for just a small experiemental side project. I even have a friend who used it
to quickly build a project for a client.

[why-jessica]: /posts/why-did-i-create-jessica/

## Goodbye to .NET

Unfortunately around the Summer of the year I quickly got burnt out working
with .NET, specifically C#. I felt locked into a platform and language with
very little breathing room for experimentation. You had to jump through many
different hoops just so you could write testable code. Dependency injection,
inversion of control, and a million interfaces later. I got tired of .NET and
moved to the greener side of the pasture. Ruby and Node.

Being locked into a specific operating system (for 100% platform support) and
specific tools (read: Visual Studio) you either had to use a sparse free
version or shell out for the expensive professional version. I just couldn't
justify working with these types of vendor lock in. I also learnt that I love
working and developing on a UNIX (or UNIX-like) platform.

## Enter Ruby and Node

Ruby has a beautiful syntax that felt really nice to write. A lot of
programmers will tell you that you should use whatever language that helps you
solve the problem. As a programmer, I feel that as the programming language is
what we write our solutions in, and what we write to maintain our solutions. We
should be comfortable with and enjoy what we're using.

I also decided around July and August that I would write my own version of
GitHub's Hubot, which hadn't been released into the open yet. This was my first
time using Node as a platform, and CoffeeScript instead of JavaScript.

I built a Node.js IRC bot, written in CoffeeScript called pickles. Pickles
did a few random things including fetching images off Google images and
getting the latest commits and pull requests from repositories on GitHub. I
released an IRC (Sweep) and Campfire (Sooty) library for writing bots on Node.

## Hello, Hubot

On one October evening, GitHub open sourced and released Hubot to the world.
This was well received. I first got involved with Hubot when I read
[this tweet from Jesse Newland][tweet-hubot].

> @jnewland: first person to write a siri backend for hubot wins a pony

[tweet-hubot]: https://twitter.com/#!/jnewland/status/128906746151452672

I have no idea what my thought process was at the time, but I implemented a
Twilio adapter for Hubot, which would allow people to send a SMS message to
a Twilio number, which would be forwarded to Hubot via a HTTP request and then
Hubot would send a SMS back to the user with the response via the Twilio HTTP
API.

I showed the world my Twilio adapter (well Twitter) and it got merged into
Hubot. I also contributed a few fixes and tweaks to Hubot over the week or so.
I received a package from Amazon one day, and I was worried because I didn't
remember ordering anything, until I opened it. It was a toy pony from Jesse.
He came through and got me my pony.

## Hubot Factory

One thing I love to do is make projects simple for people to setup and install.
I noticed that quite a few people who weren't familiar with Node, or the
process of deploying to Heroku were having issues with Hubot. This lead to a
lot of issues being opened on the Hubot repository. I decided I'd make a web
application where I user could fill in a few form elements and have their Hubot
deployed straight to Heroku for them.

I ended up building a Sinatra application that interfaced with some command
line tools and created a Hubot, then deployed it to Heroku and transferred the
application to the user. I can read more about Hubot Factory in the
[related blog post I wrote about it][hubot-factory-post].

[hubot-factory-post]: /posts/building-a-hubot-army/

## Maintainer of Hubot

I started working on a branch of Hubot that would allow people to run multiple
adapters (for example IRC and Campfire) in a single instance of Hubot. I sent a
pull request while I was working on the branch so people could give their input
and offer any suggestions. [Corey Donohoe][atmos] contacted me and said that
what I was working on was pretty much the direction Rick Olsen and he were
pushing Hubot to and asked if I would like to help maintain Hubot.

I helped to fix and push Hubot forward and even got around to finally deploying
my own Hubot to Campfire for testing and helping maintain my own projects. I'm
still working on some Hubot stuff and I'm happy with what will be coming in
2012 for Hubot, and company.

[atmos]: https://twitter.com/#!/atmos

## What does the future hold

I'm hoping I continue to improve my skills as a programmer, one of the biggest
things I learnt over the past year is to form my own opinion about things and
don't fall to things because it's what the majority gravitate towards. From
this I have started work on my own Ruby web framework built on top of Rack.

My main goal for 2012 is to release at least one open source project each
month no matter how big or small it is. Someone apart from myself may find it
useful. Maybe learn one or two new programming languages.

Feel free to follow me on [Twitter][thetombell] and on [GitHub][tombell] and
follow what I talk about and create in 2012.

[thetombell]: https://twitter.com/thetombell
[tombell]: https://github.com/tombell

